process/to-do.md, before:

---

kanban-plugin: basic

---

## Backlog

- [ ] Visualize a timeline of commits showing passage of time between them
- [ ] Visualize commits in an ordered topological timeline (usual git charts)
- [ ] Allow importing from wiki as individual files or as folder compilations
- [ ] Load commits from wiki repo and display in commit feed
- [ ] Encode manually selected files
- [ ] Ignore commits from subject (simple string pattern)
- [ ] Compile devlogs with advanced options (git footer)
- [ ] Compile folders from glob pattern
- [ ] Copy file as sources and encode from filename (glob pattern)
- [ ] Encode files from text content (glob pattern, aka auto-code)
- [ ] Encode files from filename (glob patterns)
- [ ] Encode commits from full text content (glob pattern)
- [ ] Create a URI handler (see Electron Deep Link feature) that will open a specific version of the app that can run web-based playable builds from the local commits. Alternatively, show a list of build folders per commit.


## High priority



## In progress



## Done

**Complete**


***

## Archive

- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Load components only when in view to optimize performance
- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Research options to optimize disk space use and download times
- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Fix exported files
- [x] 2023-10-20T12:43:00-04:00 -- Research ways to cache the data between uses
- [x] 2023-10-20T12:43:00-04:00 -- Bring feedback from Chip into the process notes
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Write down post-workshop notes
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Transcribe (first pass) the wksp audio
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Take photo of paper note wksp
- [x] 2023-10-06T13:07:32-04:00 -- Prepare MAC build

%% kanban:settings
```
{"kanban-plugin":"basic"}
```
%%

Commit message:

feat: Shows file and folder depth in preview list and sorts files and folders separately

process/to-do.md, after:

---

kanban-plugin: basic

---

## Backlog

- [ ] Visualize a timeline of commits showing passage of time between them
- [ ] Visualize commits in an ordered topological timeline (usual git charts)
- [ ] Allow importing from wiki as individual files or as folder compilations
- [ ] Load commits from wiki repo and display in commit feed
- [ ] Encode manually selected files
- [ ] Ignore commits from subject (simple string pattern)
- [ ] Compile devlogs with advanced options (git footer)
- [ ] Compile folders from glob pattern
- [ ] Copy file as sources and encode from filename (glob pattern)
- [ ] Encode files from text content (glob pattern, aka auto-code)
- [ ] Encode files from filename (glob patterns)
- [ ] Encode commits from full text content (glob pattern)
- [ ] Create a URI handler (see Electron Deep Link feature) that will open a specific version of the app that can run web-based playable builds from the local commits. Alternatively, show a list of build folders per commit.


## High priority

- [ ] Separate commands **compile folder** from **hierarchy selection** in file preview, showing them as diff GUI elements


## In progress



## Done

**Complete**


***

## Archive

- [x] 2023-10-25T13:54:32-04:00 -- Sort file previews by folders first
- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Load components only when in view to optimize performance
- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Research options to optimize disk space use and download times
- [x] 2023-10-24T16:06:38-04:00 -- Fix exported files
- [x] 2023-10-20T12:43:00-04:00 -- Research ways to cache the data between uses
- [x] 2023-10-20T12:43:00-04:00 -- Bring feedback from Chip into the process notes
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Write down post-workshop notes
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Transcribe (first pass) the wksp audio
- [x] 2023-10-06T16:54:10-04:00 -- Take photo of paper note wksp
- [x] 2023-10-06T13:07:32-04:00 -- Prepare MAC build

%% kanban:settings
```
{"kanban-plugin":"basic"}
```
%%
